From Hansel minutes.com there's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist is
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 92.
Recorded live Thursday, December 10th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by Tellerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelrik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with asp.net
team member Lewis to Jarden.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'm
here today on magical video
call with Lou to Jarden,
or as I like to
think about him in my
head, Louis Sharp, but I understand
that's not how your name
is pronouncer and you're working
for the Microsoft now, but
your claim to fame, at
least the claim to fame
that I like to think
about you is the spark
view engine. Can you tell
me a little about spark
for the listeners who may
not be familiar with it?
Sure. It's it's a view
engine was originally created as
one of the high view
engine implementations for NBC when
preview three, when it came
out is when it first
was added and it's been
ported to monorail, and there's
also a core DLL that
can be used kind of
anywhere. It's just a templating
engine. Really. So it's a
template again, it sounds like
you kind of kind of
blow it off like, Oh,
it's just a templating engine,
but it's just kind of
a big deal. I mean,
you've when you write a
view engine or a templating
engine, you're making kind of
a, a statement cause for
the listeners who are not
familiar with asp.net, MVC of
view engine really replaces the
angle bracket generator within asp.net
itself and makes a declaration
that here's a better way
to make HTML. Here's an,
a better DSL right now.
It's a domain specific language
for generating a HTML. Is
it not? Yeah, well HTML
is kind of a DSL
itself and it's always kind
of a mess when you
have two languages put together.
At least that's been my
experience. And so we were
using N velocity for awhile
and monorail on one project
and we noticed that the
code didn't fight with HTML
as much, and the views
ended up looking cleaner and
the, the HTML specialist, the
designers really liked those effects
because it felt natural to
them when they opened the
files. So in, in, you
know, starting spark that a
lot of that experience carried
into it to try to
make it look like HTML,
even the things that were
code, You know, in, in
NBC, by default, we get
the web forms view engine,
which is there kind of
for a couple reasons, one
it's it's default web forms
is what asp.net originally used.
So your ASP X pages
are there because they're familiar.
And then there are other
view engines that people swap
in and out of MVC.
There's one called an AML,
which is based on a,
on a Ruby view engine.
Did you invent spark from
scratch? You just kind of
sat down and said, I
wish that there was something
that, that looked like this,
or was there an inspiration
from some other view engine?
Actually, that was kind of
the, the, the root of
it came from one of
Phil hacks blog posts, and
there's a link to it
on the spark engine.com site.
The origin of spark was
a conversation threads that kind
of wound around how you
would do a repeater in
different view engines. And it
kind of turned into a
aesthetic discussion and somebody sort
of had like a leading
question was if you were
gonna just from scratch, don't
worry about like what HBX
looks like or what, what
and philosophy looks like, what
would you look like? You
know, what would you want
it to look like? And
some, my reply was you
want, I want a four
element within each attribute, you
know, cause then, you know,
it'll lay out an XML
and there'll be all those
kinds of things. So from
that sense, it was, it
was, you know, it's all
from scratch, but it borrows
from concepts from her mother,
you engines. And that's really
the fundamental premise is it
should all look like one
language, one DSL. And one
of the things about the
web forums view engine, of
course, since it's, it's using
the web forms processor, even
though there's no post-bac model
in web forms, you've got
the notion of a code
block. So you're constantly switching
contexts, you're in a code
block with an angle bracket
percent, and then you're in
doing some HTML and you
kind of hop back and
forth spark is, I don't
know, I wouldn't say confusing
initially, but it's definitely dramatic
in that. Like for example,
if you were going to
do a, a list of,
of allies, right. Of list
items, you'd say open bracket
L I, and then there's
actually an each attribute on
the, on that element. So
you'd say L I space
each equals and then you'd
have some code, but there
isn't really that obvious context
switching is. So help me
understand this, that there isn't
really an each attribute on
a list item in HTML.
Am I writing HTML or
am I writing spark? Well,
the, each attribute is an
example of like a successive
or iterative reduction in the
amount of things that you
have to type spark does
allow you to escape code
just like you can in
a SPX. It does understand
the less than percent index
as well. So you can
do C sharp, you know,
for each are X and
Y you know, open curly
brace. The four element within
each attribute is, is going
to generate that same line.
And you can wrap it
around a HTML so that
it looks like it's well
formed. And using that the,
the, the idea of just
taking the, each attribute and
putting it on the, the
element inside of there was
just something that kind of
seemed intuitive after writing a
couple of these for each
things, even though even four
elements seem to kind of
redundant because, you know, 70%
of the time you were
repeating a particular tag and
the tag had to close.
And so when you put
the, each attribute on there
really it's, it's, it's adding
the silent four in the
background, in the compiler that
just takes these special attributes
and creates the invisible for
'em around it. But you
can put a four, there
is a four attribute though,
right? If one wanted one,
Oh yeah, there's a four
there's four elements within each
attribute. And you can put
the, each attribute on any
element really. And it'll sort
of be taken off of
that element. And to four
will be put around the,
the, the element that the
each was on. So there's
a couple of, so there's
is within the templating. There's
only a couple of things
that are really, you know,
a flow control for the
views. There's like a, if
in each there's also a
once, which, which is something
you can add in order
to say, do you duplicate
script source? If you're, if
you're building up a header
area, you can say once
jQuery and jQuery is kind
of like a symbol, so
that if that appears several
times over the place, only
the first time that element
will be used the rest
of the time, they'll just
be skipped. Interesting. Now spark
was created when the, the
idioms, the kind of common
idioms for HTML already existed.
So things like doing an
alternating row, like, you know,
you're going to be switching
back and forth between two
list items, having like, even
an odd CSS classes or
having a grid of information,
those things, those kinds of
things that we saw when
we look at a user
interface didn't really exist when
I, that originally started, are
there things within spark that
are set up, like, you
know, idioms language, idioms that
are set up to make
it output these common kinds
of HTML easier than, than
other view engines, Right? Yeah.
And that's probably one of
the things that kind of
drive spark design more than
anything is in the context
of, you know, creating, you
know, website with hundreds of,
of views. You see those
kinds of things that you
do over and over and,
and require too much code.
So you, that's kind of
what drives the features in,
in the, in the looping
example when there is a
loop. So you're like for
who in, if you want
to take advantage of some,
the automatic variables that are
generated, you can refer to
fool index with the I,
or full count who is
first, who is last, those
types of things. And if
you refer to those who
generate the kind of boiler
plate, you know, bullions and
integers within the four loop,
you know, as Chrome around
that, around that iteration. So
that it's just D removing
some of the code that
you would have had to
type in context every time
you wanted to get an
account or his first or
his last. So you can,
you can do an alternating
role by putting, you know,
just your class equals and
then quote, and then all
or whatever your class name
is. And then, and then
make that condition a lot
who index mod to yeah.
And another optimization beyond that
is like, who is even
food is odd as additional
auto variables, but it's been
requested if it hasn't been
added yet. Now sometimes when
I, when I, when I
see, I don't know, we're
talking about code on a,
on an audio podcast, which
is always funny. We'll have
to have you maybe on
dotnet rocks, TV, or something
to show us how to,
how to do this. I'm
kind of more interested in
the language design, because it
was this, I mean, if
you designed a language before,
I mean, it's kind of
an amazing story that you
were on Phil's blog and
you guys were kicking stuff
around, and then you said,
gosh, you know, what would
it be like if such
and such a thing existed?
And then you actually went
off and did it, I
mean, there's so many things
in open source where someone's
talks about doing something, but
to actually go and do
it. It's just kind of,
it's, it's nice. It's refreshing
when someone actually, you know,
talk is cheap, show me
the code. Did you sit
down and design the language?
Had you designed parsers and
lectures and stuff before? Oh,
well, and the thing is,
is to just go from
a blog post and sit
down and think to yourself,
I'm going to create a
production ready view engine that
anybody can use is insane.
You, you know, you'd never
get to the end of
it. You'd never get to
beyond the design phase. So
it really started as like,
and the blog post, I,
I was just putting together
a small, you know, you
engine sample as, as kind
of a, you know, a
code form of what I
was saying is an illustration.
Like, here's how that would
really work and just like
totally language. And it's kind
of, you know, just one
feature at a time release,
like, Oh, and then, you
know, you can declare a
view data in a strongly
type fashion if you just
did this and Oh yeah,
this is, this would be
nice, but it loops also.
So it kind of turned
into a real view engine,
you know, incrementally a little
bit by bit, but yeah,
I've been, I've been working
on code for like, I
don't know, like raping, when
you think more than a
decade, 15 years, something like
that, you're bumping into these
kinds of problems all the
time, you know, just different,
different little parsing. There was,
there was a, there was,
there was one time there
was user interface that was
created as contracting job, which,
which involves, you know, a
company's own ESL. They had
a batch processing software. So
yeah, there's, you know, there's,
there's little bits and pieces
of experience you have in
the past from creating parsers
and, and, you know, breaking
down language. Now, all of
this is open source. So
people can go and look
at how you structured this.
But I think that some
of the, and correct me
if I'm wrong, but I
think some of the really
interesting design things that, that
may not be immediately obvious
to the average user of
MVC is that this is
a complete engine in itself.
You're not using asp.net web
forms or any of the
asp.net things that we know
of to do the parsing.
I mean, you have your
own parsing. And the, one
of the things I think
is significant is that in
web forms, proper and actual
web forms, of course, we've
got the post-bac model and
we've got view state and
all these kinds of things,
but in the web forms
view engine and NVC, there
is still the parsing and
creation of a control tree.
And then the rendering of
that control tree. And that
still happens in MVC, but
in spark, that doesn't, is
that correct? Right. Right. Art
parsing, actually the parsing isn't
deep in using an XML
Dom, it's just using the
XML grammar who recognize parts,
but that grammar is implemented
in its own set of
own set of, you know,
grammar statements. The code that's
generated is a single class,
and it's kind of, it's
very minimalistic, very, it's very,
you know, deconstructs. The whole
problem down to a view
turned into a class that
has an output property as
a text writer. And all
of this stuff gets perished,
transformed, mutilated a little bit
and just generates write statements.
So it's all a bunch
of output rights statements. And,
you know, and then the
code of the four loops
and the little evils are
mixed in there too. So
it turns into a single
class that's instantiated and kind
of a single method that
has all of the output
statements and, you know, flow
control sort of went into
it. Hey everybody, this is
Scott coming at you from
another place in time. No
doubt. You probably bumped into
testing tasks now, and then,
and your work and, you
know, writing functional tests is
probably not your favorite thing.
It's kind of difficult. It
takes time and the results
can be dubious. Well, get
ready to start liking tests.
Thanks to Tellerik with the,
the new webinar testing framework.
Building web automation test is
a breeze. You've got code
automation with advanced asp.net Ajax
and server light applications. You
can write a single test,
have it executed against multiple
browsers at once. You'd benefit
from a rich API there's
link support integration with visual
studio unit testing, also end
unit X and MB unit,
not to mention the free
rappers for Telerik rad controls
for ESPN, that Ajax and
several light, all shipping with
Telerik's new testing tool. One
of the best features, the
webinar testing framework, which is
developed by art of test
is it's absolutely free. You've
already got hooked on web
by testing framework, start using
it right away, go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. Okay. So let
me see if I understand
this. So you, you do
custom parsing. I, I assume
there's a regular expression in
there somewhere, right? You're you're
parsing the text internally. Do
you create an, an abstract
syntax tree of some kind,
or is this a straight
transformation to, from your kind
of quasi HTML syntax into
a bunch of calls to
text writer and right line?
Yeah, it goes through two
stages. It goes through the
grammar that breaks it into
things that are a sort
of a node representation. So
in that sense it's classes
that are, that are, you
know, start and end tags
attributes, those kinds of things.
So it's very node like,
and then there's some processing
that goes on with, you
know, a visitor pattern where
that's the stage where like
the, each attributes kind of
are pulled out and become,
you know, sort of implied
for node around there. So
there's some manipulation that occurs
at that level. Those nodes
are then turned into trunks.
So the last stage of
node processing builds arrays of
chunks, and those are more
code like, so those would
be where there's a, a
loop chunk or an output
writing trunk or a literal,
you know, HTML text that
passed through writing trunk. So
that's more code like representation.
There's a little bit of
processing that occurs there, but
not much. And then it
basically goes through each of
those trunks and, and another
visitor kind of turns into
Dakota. It turns them into
a node representation. They're mutilated
a little bit, change them
into a chunk representation a
little bit in one last
chance to make any changes.
And then they go right
out to a, a language
and the, the chunks can
actually go out to a
couple of different languages. That's
the somebody requested once, if
there was any client side
rendering of spark, and it
was pretty easy to do
just by making a different
chunk visitor that would write
out Java script instead of
C sharp. So, so I'm
not sure I don't quite
understand. What do you mean
a client side representation? You're
saying that you can write
spark and have spark generate
JavaScript. Yes. Yeah. Just like
you can create a C
sharp and compile it and
initiate it for server side
execution. You can go to
a smart template and say,
turn this into Java script
and it'll parse and transform
and generate JavaScript, which is,
you know, a bunch of
the same things, you know,
rights and groups and stuff
like that. So you can
get that Java script to
the client as a script
source. And it essentially is
a function that you can
call and pass it a
Jason object or a DataBank
contract. And it a return,
a string of that view.
Having turned that object into
HTML Now is that, is
that an a, maybe I'm
getting off in the weeds
a little bit here, but
is that an obscure and
interesting thing you did for
one guy, or is that
something that everyone would care
about? Well, that was something
that somebody asked about and,
and, and, and it seemed
interesting. And then, you know,
thinking about it, I thought
it seemed doable. And then,
you know, so it, it
only took like a day
on the weekend. So it's
really, it was just going
through the chunks and saying,
okay, this chunk writes out
literal, Oh, I know how
to do that in JavaScript.
This is a loop that's
doable. And so, you know,
just bit by bit, you
know, when you implementing 12
different types of chunks, and
then you've got a JavaScript
version of a Now when,
when I sit down and
look at some, some, some
open source thing, if I
decide to visit spark view
engine.com and I say, Oh,
well, this is interesting, but
it's such a fundamental thing.
It's such a personal thing.
The choice of one's one's
view engine, especially when, when
you've used web forms for
so very long, I would
look at this and I'd
say, wow, this looks nice.
It's a Polish site. Wow.
That's an interesting, that's an
interesting syntax, but then I'd
say, you know, but I
bet that if, if there's
like one misplaced space or,
you know, I don't close
a tag, this thing is
going to be impossible to
debug. And I don't know
why I have that sense.
Maybe I've gotten burned by
other open source applications where
someone tries to create their
own language, but they don't
go kind of all the
way, what kind of help
do I get? What kind
of debugging do I get,
especially with cogeneration, you know,
if there's a, if there's
a misplaced curly brace, what
kind of chaos happens? Yeah.
Well, as, you know, as
with all things, the visual
studio integration is, is not,
and probably never will be
as refined as, as the,
as you know, the default
views, but in order for
it to be as convenient
as possible. And again, it's
not a, you know, it's
not a, it's not a
theoretical view engine it's, it's
created in the, you know,
the crucible of creating an
application with lots of people
at the same time. So
those kinds of pains would
be felt immediately by everybody.
So one of the things
it does is when there's
an exception or a problem
from compiling, it throws the
entire, you know, generated code
back I do is the
exception message. Get your yellow
screen of death is huge,
but it pretty much says,
okay, here in the view
is something I didn't understand.
Or I got a compiler
error on, you know, line
85 and line 32, you
know, not in that order,
but then, you know, scroll
down through the yellow screen
for lying 85. And it's
like, Oh yeah. So you
don't even try to hide
the, the, the underlying generated
code and tell them something
friendly and then map it
back to the line of
spark. You just say, well,
here's what happened. Well, there's,
there's something kind of frenzy
at the top because it's,
that type of era happens
when, you know, the code
is generated and it's thrown
to the C sharp code
down to compile, it'll come
back with an array of
errors, the same that, you
know, your buildup. So you'll
have those errors at the
top. And then pretty much
the source that was generated
is shown to you just
so that, you know, there's
no other way to get
somebody so that they can
see, you know, the context
of what really happened when,
you know, the compiler failed
beyond that. There's what else
is there? Oh, the C-sharp
has a couple of pragmatists
where you can say the
source line number and file
path from code. So spark
does include those also in
the generated code. When you
say line numbers, you mean
line numbers of the source.
So I might be online
100 of the generated stuff,
and then you would have
a pound Pragma that says
I'm a really online 50,
Right, right. Right. So in,
in the, in the generated
file is very large, but
there'll be a fragment that
says, this is on, you
know, C colon projects slash
something, lash something that's merch
line. So the line of
code that's generated refers to
the original view. And, and
it's, you know, it's one
of those things it's kind
of amazing to see work.
Cause it wasn't that much
work to put those lines
in. But what happens is
a spark view is compiled
into an assembly that has
debug symbols pointing to the
original view. So when an
exception fires at runtime, it'll,
it'll bring up as far
as you file. And, and
it'll highlight that line as
if that's where the code
came from. And you can
even single step and look
at the local variables because
the debugger thinks you're debugging.
That generated file. So it
knows all the local variables
in that function and your
context, but the file you're
looking at, it's showing you
essentially a different file because
ebook symbols lied and said,
okay, well, I'm at this
symbolic break point when I'm
at this break point, show
this file at this spot.
It's, it's, it's kinda weird,
but yeah, you can set
break points and you can
step through code and you
can look at variables when
you're in a dot spark
file And you didn't have
to do a lot of
work for that at all.
It's just basically visual studio
expects that people will want
to do this at some
point. So, Oh yeah, yeah.
Yeah. The way that visual
studio is set up with
X files is that they
already have the idea of
C sharp as a contained
language, that type of thing.
So there was a lot
of stuff done in visual
studio to make debugging when
forms work and spark is
just kind of taking advantage
of that work when web
form is generated files later,
the same thing they put
that sort of like, well
here's code, but this line
is really that one in
that other file. So when,
when you're single stepping show
that one, so you can
step through an ASP X
patient spark cause you're taking
advantage of that mechanism in
the same way. That's interesting.
Cause I was trying to
get my head around whether
spark was truly trying to
be a law was truly
a language. And you, you
did kind of, you know,
Lex and yak type stuff
like we did in college
to create its own language.
Or this is really a
transformation. It seems like it's
more of a DSL in
the, in the, the transforms
into something else. And then
you get to take advantage
of a lot of the
language capabilities that are available
to you kind of from
the, from the ambient asp.net
engine, you don't even have
to really look at at
your code blocks. Do you
No. Look at your code
blocks. Like, like for example,
if I say something like
in spark, like, you know,
VAR classes equals new array,
something, something, something, are you
parsing that whole thing out
or do you just see
the VAR classes element and
attribute and then just transform
it into some C-sharp if
I understand how much do
you actually actually think about
the contents, the code itself
versus just pass it along
and transform it into C
sharp It's 99% just passing
it along. I'm not, I'm
not trying to minimize your
work or something. Actually. I'm
just thinking about how much
was given to us. So
if someone were to try
to do something like this
themselves, how scary is this?
Oh yeah, no, no, I'll
be the first one to
minimize it. Really, it is
a partial and a code
generator. It's not a compiler
it's using the code down
from C-sharp and it is
not a execution engine or
a, or an evaluation engine
or, or an interpreter or
anything like that. It's that,
that entire problem domain passes
right through spark in his
hand it over to the
C sharp language, which is,
which is one of the
things that, you know, from
the end last city monorail
background, they had an interpreter
and, and a little language
for, you know, variable outputs
and, and evaluation. That was
reflection based. And it was
a lot like C-sharp, but
not exactly. So, so like
gray access, for example, you
couldn't use the square brace
and there were little things
like that, that every, so
often you had a model
that you were trying to
show a property or something
on that you couldn't quite
do it just, just with
something that looks like C
sharp. So that was one
of the reasons to kind
of try to just let
that whole problem domain fly
right through and not worry
about it because then you
get 100% C-sharp, you know,
like every feature C even
the link statements on enumerators,
you can do those in
a, for each extension methods.
Every, everything is just kind
of delegated to that, to
that existing system. Well, that's
actually kind of funny because
it lets you take a
credit for the language of
neat that makes spark look
great. Right? Because these little
snippets get passed on to
a T to C sharp,
but it makes spark look
that much more full featured.
So you're standing on the
shoulders of giants. Oh yeah,
yeah, exactly. Yeah. Just writes
code. Now, one of the
things I wanted to add
a backup and then fork
off of was the idea
that because you're not making
an intermediate step of, of,
of control tree, we'll call
it the, the classic asp.net
web forms way. I'm just
going out on a limb
here and taking it, taking
a chance. It, would it
be fair to say that
spark either is or could
be faster just in the
parsing and spitting out angle
brackets kind of things then
the asp.net web forms engine
itself? Well, yes. And, and
I think that the way
that you could look at
that is that it's not
because scorecard is a class
that's created and executed and
it's a single pass through
a function. It's not necessarily
that it's faster that went
forms is inefficient. It's just,
that is doing so little.
It does almost nothing. That
is it's well, you know,
it's not really possible for
it to be, you know,
slower than anything other than,
you know, C plus plus
code or something like that.
And even that might be,
you know, kind of a
dead heat in some cases,
but it's, it's really just,
you know, single functional. So,
so in that sense, it's,
it's minimalistic the thing is,
is that, you know, what
foreigns engines does is a
lot more spark is very
specific to a particular problem
of being a view in
an MVC structure. So the
dealer's responsible for not very
much because of the separation
of concerns that all you
really need is, you know,
a single passenger function you
don't need to. Oh, well,
No you're saying, you're saying,
I just want to back
up to make sure that
the listeners understand you're saying
single pass through function, as
opposed to you're saying that
sparked us so little because
it's just, it's just dumping
out a big function that
you call and it's calling
text writer, right. Versus versus
web forms view engine that
does what Well, you know,
spark, for example, doesn't have
other cycle of the, of
the components that maintains it.
It doesn't, it doesn't create
several different objects for separate
different times, at least, and,
and walks them through the
process of restoring their state
and, you know, rendering and
recapturing and serializing space. All
of those types of things
are outside of the problem
domain of, of MTC, as
far as doesn't support server
controls. Basically it's got no
ability to do that whatsoever,
but if you're okay with
that and you're willing to,
you know, give up server
controls, you can, you know,
make many, many, many assumptions
that just reduce the amount
of work that the you
is doing. Yeah. Server controls
was my next question. So,
but you still support partial
views though. And the kinds
of things that were the
kinds of conveniences that were,
that were used to an
NVC. Oh, absolutely. The, the
HTML and all of those
other helpers are present to
the base class. So partial
view editor for template for
all of those helpers can
be used and they operate
exactly the same way. Ah,
good. So I can use
the HTML helpers that I've
already written and I can
use, you just brought up
editor four and display four.
These are MVC two helpers,
those work too. Yep. And
the way that NBC is
written, you can, I don't
kind of interrupt between languages.
So you can have a
web forms view showing the
spark partial file or vice
versa. So, so you're not,
when you, when you say,
you know, editor for, or,
or partial view, you can
jump languages at the same
time. Ah, that's cool. So
I don't have to, if
I was going to introduce
spark to my company, it's
not like I have to
go and give a Brown
bag and get all the
developers in and say, all
right, we're going to move
everything over to spark. We
can just try a couple
of views. Yep. Yeah. You
can register the spark engine
and, you know, just like
all a few engines, it's
kind of based on the
extension. So you can change
some existing ASC X to
adopt spark or, you know,
and they can be side
by side. So it, there's
two things that make migration
a little bit easier. One
is that you can run
side by side for a
long time. And the other
is that spark recognizes the,
the angle bracket percent syntax
for code snippets and for
output expressions. So you, you
don't even need to rewrite
the view a hundred percent
in order to be sparked
you, you just have to
change the thing. Whoa, that's
that's cool. So the, the
spark syntax that I'm used
to for code blocks is,
is the dollar sign curly
brace. And you're saying I
can even mix and match
and use the old angle
bracket percent style. Oh yeah.
The purchaser treats them as
an alias. They're recognized as
the same thing when they're
turned into a node. So
the second is turned from
text into nodes. They're the
same assets. Well, that'll make
porting my existing views over
nicely. Yeah. Streamlined it a
lot. And you know, the
html.in code inside of those
works the same one way
or the other spark has
H function, which is a
shorter version of HTML and
code equal HTML dot Incode.
That's very cool. That's about
six months ago working at
Microsoft. Now the amount of
time has mysteriously has cut
back a little bit integration,
which has compiled against MPC
too. So the next thing
would be just to make
that completely switched over to
MVC to one of the
things that I really want
to do is widen out
the ownership of it by
yourself. Or do you have
a team of ninjas contributors,
very streamlined process? You know,
you pull the main spark
that repository. I'm the only
one that has commit rights
to it right now. I
think that's something many, many
contributors, kind of a single
repository. That's something I think
that needs to change pretty
quickly. I appreciate you sitting
down and get me up
to speed on what's going
on with spark. That'd be
cool. Doing all sorts of
crazy stuff. All right. Well,
thanks so much for taking
the time.